src/doc/rustc/src/platform-support/aarch64-apple-ios-sim.md, before:

# aarch64-apple-ios-sim

**Tier: 3**

Apple iOS Simulator on ARM64.

## Designated Developers

* [@badboy](https://github.com/badboy)
* [@deg4uss3r](https://github.com/deg4uss3r)

## Requirements

This target is cross-compiled.
To build this target Xcode 12 or higher on macOS is required.

## Building

The target can be built by enabling it for a `rustc` build:

```toml
[build]
build-stage = 1
target = ["aarch64-apple-ios-sim"]
```

## Cross-compilation

This target can be cross-compiled from `x86_64` or `aarch64` macOS hosts.

Other hosts are not supported for cross-compilation, but might work when also providing the required Xcode SDK.

## Testing

Currently there is no support to run the rustc test suite for this target.


## Building Rust programs

*Note: Building for this target requires the corresponding iOS SDK, as provided by Xcode 12+.*

If `rustc` has support for that target and the library artifacts are available,
then Rust programs can be built for that target:

```text
rustc --target aarch64-apple-ios-sim your-code.rs
```

On Rust Nightly it is possible to build without the target artifacts available:

```text
cargo build -Z build-std --target aarch64-apple-ios-sim
```

There is no easy way to run simple programs in the iOS simulator.
Static library builds can be embedded into iOS applications.

Commit message:

Importing rustc-1.56.0
Change-Id: I98941481270706fa55f8fb2cb91686ae3bd30f38

src/doc/rustc/src/platform-support/aarch64-apple-ios-sim.md, after:

# aarch64-apple-ios-sim

**Tier: 2**

Apple iOS Simulator on ARM64.

## Designated Developers

* [@badboy](https://github.com/badboy)
* [@deg4uss3r](https://github.com/deg4uss3r)

## Requirements

This target is cross-compiled.
To build this target Xcode 12 or higher on macOS is required.

## Building

The target can be built by enabling it for a `rustc` build:

```toml
[build]
build-stage = 1
target = ["aarch64-apple-ios-sim"]
```

## Cross-compilation

This target can be cross-compiled from `x86_64` or `aarch64` macOS hosts.

Other hosts are not supported for cross-compilation, but might work when also providing the required Xcode SDK.

## Testing

Currently there is no support to run the rustc test suite for this target.


## Building Rust programs

*Note: Building for this target requires the corresponding iOS SDK, as provided by Xcode 12+.*

From Rust Nightly 1.56.0 (2021-08-03) on the artifacts are shipped pre-compiled:

```text
rustup target add aarch64-apple-ios-sim --toolchain nightly
```

Rust programs can be built for that target:

```text
rustc --target aarch64-apple-ios-sim your-code.rs
```

There is no easy way to run simple programs in the iOS simulator.
Static library builds can be embedded into iOS applications.
